add dumps to safeguard guide (#547)
meilisearch/documentation: guides/advanced_guides/snapshots_and_dumps.md

# Snapshots and Dumps

## Snapshot vs Dump

MeiliSearch has two ways to save its data, `snapshots` and `dumps`.

Snapshots make it possible to schedule the creation of hard copies of your database. This feature is **intended mainly as a safeguard**—ensuring that if some failure occurs, you're able to relaunch MeiliSearch quickly and efficiently without having to wait for the re-indexing of documents. They are **not compatible between versions**.

Dumps, at the difference, are **exporting the data out of MeiliSearch** in a way that they are not bound to the MeiliSearch version. Because of that, when importing a dump, MeiliSearch will need to index all of your documents, a process that takes up time and overhead (based on the amount of documents, their size and the settings).

> **To summarize**, **snapshots are highly efficient but not portable between different versions of MeiliSearch. Dumps, on the other hand, are highly portable but not very efficient, as frequently launching MeiliSearch from a dump would cause your performance to suffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**To summarize**, snapshots are highly efficient but not portable between different versions of MeiliSearch. Dumps, on the other hand, are highly portable but not very efficient, as frequently launching MeiliSearch from a dump would cause your performance to suffer.
```

## Snapshots

A snapshot is an exact copy of the database at the time the snapshot was created. Snapshots do not go through any processing.
With it, it is possible to create and restore MeiliSearch from snapshots and schedule snapshot creation at custom intervals.

### Creating Snapshots

> For MeiliSearch to create snapshots, the feature must be enabled by specifying a path to the directory in which snapshots will be saved.

Author: Deprecated See #552

```bash

> $ meilisearch --snapshot-path mySnapShots/

Reviewer: :warning: will be soon changed to `--schedule-snapshot` and `--snapshot-dir`, I made a PR about this

Reviewer: related to #552

Author: Will this be added in v0.16?

Author: Since you changed it in your PR I will only change the `dumps` part

```

> By default, MeiliSearch schedules a snapshot creation every day. When the instance starts, it will wait 24 hours until the first snapshot. This means that if you have launched MeiliSearch on Tuesday at 4 pm, the first snapshot will be created on Wednesday at 4 pm, and so on every day.

Author: See #552 Could you change it there?

The schedule can be modified with the `--snapshot-interval-sec` flag.

```bash
$ meilisearch --snapshot-path mySnapShots/ --snapshot-interval-sec 3600
```

Now a snapshot will be created every hour.

During snapshot creation, snapshots are **overwritten**. Meaning, only the last snapshot will be present in the folder.

> [[More about snapshots flags and env variables]](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#schedule-snapshot-creation)

Author: See #552 Could you change it there?

> ### Start from Snapshot

Author: See #552 Could you change it there?

Because snapshots are zipped copies of your database that did not go through any processing, starting a MeiliSearch instance from one of them is significantly faster.

> Using the global environment `MEILI_LOAD_FROM_SNAPSHOT` or the CLI flag `--load-from-snapshot` , MeiliSearch will start the server using the provided snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the global environment `MEILI_IMPORT_SNAPSHOT` or the CLI flag `--import-snapshot` , MeiliSearch will start the server using the provided snapshot.
```
related to #552

> Using the global environment `MEILI_LOAD_FROM_SNAPSHOT` or the CLI flag `--load-from-snapshot` , MeiliSearch will start the server using the provided snapshot.

Author: See #552 Could you change it there?

```bash

> $ meilisearch --load-from-snapshot mySnapShots/data.ms.tar.gz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ meilisearch --import-snapshot mySnapShots/data.ms.snapshot
```

related to #552

```

If a database already exists, or if no snapshot is found at the given path, MeiliSearch will **stop processing and throw an error**. This is configurable.

> If you don't want MeiliSearch to throw an error if a database already exists, you can add the following flag: `--ignore-snapshot-if-db-exists=true`. By adding this flag, if a database exists, MeiliSearch will **not** import the snapshot and continue its process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both cases, **this behavior is [configurable](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#ignore-missing-snapshot)**.

If you don't want MeiliSearch to throw an error when finding that a database already exists, you can add the following flag: `--ignore-snapshot-if-db-exists=true`. When using this flag, MeiliSearch will use the existing database to start an instance instead of throwing an error. The snapshot will be ignored.
```

> If you do not want MeiliSearch to throw an error when there is no snapshot at the given path you can add the following flag: `--ignore-missing-snapshot`. MeiliSearch will then continue its process and not import any snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want MeiliSearch to throw an error when there is no snapshot at the given path you can add the following flag: `--ignore-missing-snapshot=true`. MeiliSearch will then continue its process and not import any snapshot.
```

> If you do not want MeiliSearch to throw an error when there is no snapshot at the given path you can add the following flag: `--ignore-missing-snapshot`. MeiliSearch will then continue its process and not import any snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not want MeiliSearch to throw an error when there is no snapshot at the given path, you can add the following flag: `--ignore-missing-snapshot`. MeiliSearch will then continue its process and not import any snapshot.
```

> When starting from a snapshot, chances are that you already have an existing database. **For security reasons, a database is never overwritten**. To load a snapshot when an existing database is present, you will have to delete it manually. By default, the database is in `data.ms` folder ([unless you changed the path](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#database-path)), which is located in the same folder as your MeiliSearch binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When starting from a snapshot, chances are that you already have an existing database. **For security reasons, a database is never overwritten**. To load a snapshot when an existing database is present, you will have to manually delete the existing database. By default, this is the contents of the `data.ms` folder (unless you [changed the path](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#database-path)) which is located in the same folder as your MeiliSearch binary.
```

> The simplest way to delete your database is the use `rm -rf data.ms`. After which you can start your MeiliSearch with the path to the snapshot you want to load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest way to delete your database is with the terminal command `rm -rf data.ms`, after which you should be able to start MeiliSearch with a snapshot.
```

> [[More about snapshots flags and env variables]](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#schedule-snapshot-creation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[More about snapshot-related flags and env variables](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#schedule-snapshot-creation)
```

Author: See #552 Could you change it there?

### Use Cases

> **Snapshots are safeguards in case of problems**. If your MeiliSearch instance encounters a problem or if you have done a mistake while manipulating your database, restarting your instance with the latest snapshot is an easy way to recover your data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Snapshots are safeguards in case of problems**. If your MeiliSearch instance encounters a problem or if you make a mistake while manipulating your database, restarting your instance with the latest snapshot is an easy way to recover your data.
```

> ### Version Compatibilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Version Compatibility
```

> Since a snapshot is a replica of your database, it will restore it only if your MeiliSearch runs on the version it has been created on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since a snapshot is an exact replica of your database, it can only be opened by the same version of MeiliSearch that created it.
```

## Dumps

> Dumps are compressed files containing an export of your MeiliSearch instance. It contains all your indexes, documents and settings in a raw unprocessed manner. A dump isn't an exact copy—more like a blueprint that allows you to create an identical dataset. Dumps can be imported on the launch of MeiliSearch. MeiliSearch will start after the data has been indexed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A dump is a compressed file containing an export of your MeiliSearch instance. It contains all your indexes, documents, and settings, but in a raw unprocessed form. A dump isn't an exact copy of your database—it is closer to a blueprint that allows you to create an identical dataset. A dump can be imported when launching MeiliSearch, but be advised that it may take some time to index all the documents within.
```

> ### Dumps creation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Creating a Dump
```

> To create a dump of your dataset, you need to use the appropriate http route: `POST /dumps`. Using that route will trigger a dump creation process. Creating a dump is an asynchronous task that takes time based on the size of your dataset. A dump uid (unique identifier) is returned to help you track the process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a dump of your dataset, you need to use the appropriate HTTP route: `POST /dumps`. Using that route will trigger a dump creation process. Creating a dump is an asynchronous task that takes time based on the size of your dataset. A dump uid (unique identifier) is returned to help you track the process.
```

<code-samples id="post_dump_1" />

> ### Triggers a dump creation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above code triggers a dump creation process.
```

> At any given moment, you can check the status of a particular dump creation process using the previously received dump uid, like so: `GET /dumps/:dump_uid/status`. Using this route, you can know whether your dump is still processing, is already done, or has encountered a problem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At any given moment, you can check the status of a particular dump creation process using the previously received dump uid, like so: `GET /dumps/:dump_uid/status`. Using this route, you can know whether your dump is still processing, has already been created, or has encountered a problem.
```

<code-samples id="get_dump_status_1" />

> After your dump creation process is done, the dump file is created and added in the dump folder. By default, this folder is `/dumps` at the root of your MeiliSearch binary, but this can be customized. Note that if your dump folder does not exist when the dump creation process is called, MeiliSearch will create it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After your dump creation process is done, the dump file is created and added in the dump folder. By default, this folder is `/dumps` at the root of your MeiliSearch binary, but this can be customized. Note that **if your dump folder does not already exist when the dump creation process is called, MeiliSearch will create it**.
```

### Import a Dump

> Once you have exported a dump, which is a tar.gz file, you are now able to use that dump to launch MeiliSearch. As the data contained in the dump needs to be indexed, the process will take some time to complete. Only when the dump has been fully imported will the MeiliSearch server start, after which you can begin searching through your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have exported a dump, which is a `.dump` file, you are now able to use that dump to launch MeiliSearch. As the data contained in the dump needs to be indexed, the process will take some time to complete. Only when the dump has been fully imported will the MeiliSearch server start, after which you can begin searching through your data.
```

Reviewer: related to #552

```bash

> ./meilisearch --import-dump /dumps/12345678.tar.gz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./meilisearch --import-dump /dumps/12345678.dump
```

Reviewer: related to #552

```

Because the indexation is the same process as when the documents are initially added to MeiliSearch, it is still a good practice to index documents in batches if the dataset is to big. The size of the batches are based on your dataset size and on your memory capacity.

> [See here for more dumps options](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#dumps-folder)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[See here for more dumps options](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#dumps-destination)
```
related to #552

> [See here for more dumps options](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#dumps-folder)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, documents are indexed in batches of 1024. It is considered good practice to change this number, particularly if your dataset is unusually large or you have an especially small memory overhead. The batch-size you choose should be based on both the size of your dataset and your memory capacity. For a more extensive explanation, [see this guide](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#dump-batch-size).

[More flags and environment variables related to dumps](/guides/advanced_guides/configuration.md#dumps-folder)
```

### Use Cases

> Dumps are used after MeiliSearch updates or to communicate your database to other instances of MeiliSearch (on different servers for exemple) without having to worry about their respective Meilisearch version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dumps are used to restore your database after MeiliSearch updates or to communicate your database to other instances of MeiliSearch (e.g. running on different servers) without having to worry about their respective versions.
```
